alien-movies-chronologically-and-by-releases-20250617.txt

Alien movies in order: chronological and release
June 12, 2025

Watch all Alien movies in order with our comprehensive list, from the 1979
original to Alien: Romulus, and including the Alien vs. Predator crossovers.

In space, no one can hear you scream. Thankfully, you’re on planet Earth and
planning to watch the Alien movies in order. Whether it’s just Ellen Ripley’s
nightmarish journey or the full series, here's how to watch the Alien movies in
both chronological and release order..

Everyone knows the first two movies are the best Alien movies, but things get
shakier once you start discussing Alien 3 and beyond. Even the largely
celebrated Alien: Romulus, which put the series back on track, has its fair
share of detractors. But if we sit down to have a civilized conversation
instead of spitting acid at each other, we might find common ground and agree
that the Alien series is really cool, and even the worst entries so far have a
unique vision behind them.

If you ignore the two Alien vs. Predator movies, which are their own thing, the
Alien movie timeline begins in the year 2089 with Prometheus, when the
colonization of distant worlds has already begun, and advances up to the year
2381 with Alien: Resurrection. 300 years of history, and the money-grubbing
corporations are still messing with the Xenos, despite Ripley’s best efforts to
prevent that from happening. They will never learn.

With Disney now calling the shots and Romulus’ box office haul being pretty
convincing, there’s no way the Xenomorphs are stopping their onslaught anytime
soon. On the horizon, we have Alien: Earth – the franchise’s first-ever TV show
– hitting this summer on Hulu and Disney+. And don’t turn off the motion
tracker after that, since we’ll be hearing about the next movie sooner rather
than later.

You can find where to watch the movies below, or in our Alien streaming guide
too. And if you’re looking for a critical take on each Predator installment,
then head on over to our Predator movies in order list, too.

There are no spoilers in this list beyond the basic premise of each movie and
some curiosities and references, but if you want to go in as blind as possible,

stick to the bullet list below.
---
Alien movies in chronological order

01 - Alien vs. Predator
03 - Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem
04 - Prometheus
05 - Alien: Covenant
06 - Alien
07 - Alien: Romulus
10 - Aliens
11 - Alien 3
12 - Alien: Resurrection
---
1. Alien vs. Predator
Alien vs. Predator (2004)

    Release date: August 13, 2004
    Cast: Sanaa Lathan, Raoul Bova, Lance Henriksen

After a failed AvP project which was developed in the 90s, Shane Salerno’s
script set the action in (back then) present day: 2004. An expedition led by
Charles Bishop Weyland (Lance Henriksen) wants to investigate a massive heat
signal under the ice on Bouvetøya, an island off the coast of Antarctica. What
comes afterwards is a chaotic battle between long-dormant Xenomorphs and three
Predator hunters, with humans caught in the middle.

As the first Alien vs. Predator crossover movie, AvP tries really hard to
connect both franchises, especially with the inclusion of Aliens veteran Lance
Henriksen as the founder of Weyland Industries (which later becomes
Weyland-Yutani after a merger). However, it put the origins of the Xenomorphs –
as presented by Alien (1979) – into question, and Ridley Scott’s prequel movies
later trashed the entire idea of Xenos existing this early in the timeline.
Furthermore, a major flashback set in the early days of human civilization
shows that both species have been going at it for an awfully long time.
---
2. Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem 

Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem (2007)
(Image credit: 20th Century Studios)

    Release date: December 25, 2007
    Cast: Steven Pasquale, Reiko Aylesworth, John Ortiz

20th Century Fox’s (now Studios) second go at AvP was met with abysmal reviews
and a cold shoulder from most fans, although it delivered enough unrestrained
nastiness and refreshing in-universe concepts to get diehard fans talking. AvP:
Requiem is set in 2004 too, starting right after the previous movie cuts to
black. There are notable differences between the theatrical cut and the
extended one (which is the way to go), but the main events remain unchanged in
the latter.

This movie keeps pushing the idea of everything in both franchises happening in
one big timeline, and ends up tying Yutani Corp’s huge space travel
advancements we see in the Alien movies to Predator tech. This ain’t canon
anymore for the Alien franchise, but as mentioned before, the AvP movies have
been embraced by the Predator timeline. As bad as the movie is, the Yutani nod
was a cool note to end on.
---
3. Prometheus

Prometheus (2012)
(Image credit: 20th Century Studios)

    Release date: June 1, 2012
    Cast: Noomi Rapace, Michael Fassbender, Charlize Theron

The first of the Alien prequels by original director Ridley Scott starts in
2089 (prologue aside), with archaeologists Elizabeth Shaw (Noomi Rapace) and
Charlie Holloway (Logan Marshall-Green) discovering an ancient star map on
Earth that sends them – backed by the Weyland Corporation – to the distant moon
LV-223, where they arrive in December 2093.

While Xenomorphs as we know them don’t show up in this movie, we learned tons
about their makers – referred to as Engineers – and their connection to
humankind. The sci-fi rules of all the chaos and horror that ensue are
confusing to say the least, but Scott and his team made one thing clear: the
classic Xenomorph didn’t exist at this point, instantly vaporizing both AvP
movies out of the timeline.

In a hilarious move, the upcoming TV series, which Scott is producing and
actively working on, appears to be playing the same card and trashing his take
on the Xenos’ origin, as it will take place on Earth “in the near future.”
Continuity? They don’t know her.
---
4. Alien: Covenant 

Alien Covenant Xeno_20th Century Fox
(Image credit: 20th Century Fox)

    Release date: May 12, 2017
    Cast: Michael Fassbender, Katherine Waterston, Billy Crudup

Once again, the second Alien prequel kicks off with a distant prologue which
teases future events and discoveries. The story itself takes place in the year
2104, 11 years after the Prometheus expedition went missing. The colonization
ship Covenant is en route to the planet Origae-6, but a mysterious transmission
of a human voice makes the crew look for answers in a nearby planet with
Earth-like characteristics.

While Ridley Scott still showed more interest in everything that wasn’t the
actual Xenomorph, there’s plenty of classic Alien goodness in Covenant, finally
giving the nightmarish creatures a clear origin which, as mentioned before,
doesn’t vibe with the AvP flicks. Sadly, the third movie of the trilogy will
probably never happen following a disappointing box office haul, and Covenant’s
ending is anything but close to leading into the crashed Engineer ship found in
the original Alien.
---
5. Alien 

Alien (1979)
(Image credit: 20th Century Studios)

    Release date: May 25, 1979
    Cast: Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerritt, John Hurt

The events of the original horror masterpiece take place in 2122, which puts
only 18 years between it and Covenant. Of course, this being the movie that
started it all, everything in Alien stands on its own. There’s a big mystery,
plenty of scares and gore, and little more. The worldbuilding is intriguing but
slim, and we learn early on that Weyland-Yutani was actively seeking the
strange and lethal Xenomorph.

If we accept Scott’s intent and try to work his Alien prequels into the
original canon, we have to assume that, at some point in between Covenant and
this movie, the company learned about the existence of the Xenomorph and the
Engineers, either through a survivor of whatever happened afterwards or via
remote transmission. Also, a group of Engineers from another planet or moon –
since the synth David (Michael Fassbender) massacred an entire planet before
creating the monster – got their hands on plenty of eggs and then crashed on
LV-426. If everyone involved wanted to tie things up nicely, these events
would’ve been the backbone of the prequel trilogy’s conclusion. But alas…
---
6. Alien: Romulus

Still from the sci-fi space horror "Alien: Romulus". Here a woman comes face to face with a scary xenomorph alien.
(Image credit: 20th Century Studios)

    Release date: August 16, 2024
    Cast: Cailee Spaeny, Isabela Merced, David Jonsson

Alien: Romulus takes place in 2142. Weyland-Yutani got its hands on the
dangerous Xenomorphs and ran experiments on them in a space station. Enter the
cast of young characters, who board said space station to steal some
highly-regulated equipment. Of course, things get ugly fast, but the movie
revealed a far more sinister mystery than just Xenomorphs that broke
containment.

The story kicks off with a shuttle from Weyland-Yutani retrieving a Xenomorph
cocoon from the debris left by the Nostromo’s explosion in the first Alien
movie. Yup, the unwanted alien passenger that slaughtered the Nostromo’s crew
simply stayed alive, asleep and adrift in outer space until someone found it.
Without getting into further plot details, Romulus ends in a way that doesn’t
break the basic premise of Aliens, which is that Weyland-Yutani continues to
look for Xenomorphs and risks an entire colony years later.
---
7. Aliens 

Aliens (1986)
(Image credit: 20th Century Studios)

    Release date: July 18, 1986
    Cast: Sigourney Weaver, Carrie Henn, Michael Biehn

57 years after the events of Alien, in 2179, the sole survivor of the Nostromo,
Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), is rescued in deep space and debriefed by her
employers, who seem skeptical about her claims. To make matters worse, LV-426
is now the site of a large terraforming colony. And of course, some poor
employees eventually come across the massive derelict ship full of dormant
Xenomorph eggs.

Though there are some obvious ellipses happening early on, the entire story
plays out during the year 2179, which suggests that Ripley is brought to a
Weyland-Yutani station close nearby after she’s rescued, and that LV-426 isn’t
too far away either. And it all makes sense, since the Nostromo never got too
far from the planetoid in the first movie before Ripley destroyed it and went
for a long nap inside the shuttle Narcissus, which just drifted away for more
than half a century.
---
8. Alien 3 

Scene from the movie Alien 3. An Alien is snarling in Ellen Ripley's face. Ripley is scared.
(Image credit: 20th Century Studios)

    Release date: May 22, 1992
    Cast: Sigourney Weaver, Charles S. Dutton, Charles Dance

Alien 3 begins shortly after Ripley, Newt (Carrie Henn), Hicks (Michael Biehn),
and the damaged android Bishop (Lance Henriksen) enter cryonic stasis. In one
of the darkest movie starts of all time, Ripley crash-lands and finds herself
trapped in a claustrophobic prison on Fiorina “Fury” 161, a barren world. Of
course, the Xenomorphs had something to do with that, and the nightmare follows
her down to the hellish planet.

The entire movie takes place in 2179, which means the post-Aliens nap was
extremely short and that everything in David Fincher’s off-beat and smaller
threequel happens rather fast. A major question mark that still causes heated
debate among fans is the appearance of Bishop’s creator (both played by Lance
Henriksen), who doesn’t seem too bothered by some grave injuries he sustains in
the climax. Was he the real Michael Weyland or just a more elaborate synth
designed to fool her into giving up the Xenomorph?
---
9. Alien: Resurrection 

Alien: Resurrection (1997)
(Image credit: 20th Century Studios)

    Release date: November 12, 1997
    Cast: Sigourney Weaver, Winona Ryder, Ron Perlman

Alien: Resurrection made the biggest time jump in the franchise, distancing
itself from Weyland-Yutani and that entire storyline. It’s set in the year
2381, 202 years after the death of Ellen Ripley and the last known Xenomorph.
One would think the franchise would take advantage of the situation to swap
Sigourney Weaver’s character for a new lead, but nope – she’s cloned, alongside
the embryo of a Xenomorph Queen, using blood samples taken before her death by
Jonathan Clemens (Charles Dance).

The entire premise (and development) of Joss Whedon’s script was quite the
ride, and French director Jean-Pierre Jeunet’s sensibilities only made
Resurrection even weirder, but it’s nonetheless a fascinating look into a far
future of the Alien universe which somehow feels even more depressing and dire
than the classic Weyland-Yutani era.
---
Alien movies in release order

01 - Alien (1979)
02 - Aliens (1986)
03 - Alien 3 (1992)
04 - Alien: Resurrection (1997)
05 - Alien vs. Predator (2004)
06 - Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem (2007)
07 - Prometheus (2012)
10 - Alien: Covenant (2017)
11 - Alien: Romulus (2024)

---

