mc key bindings 20231024:

Miscellaneous Keys
       Here are some keys which don't fall into any of the other categories:

       Enter  if  there is some text in the command line (the one at the bottom of the panels), then that
	   command is executed. If there is no text in the command line then if the selection bar is over a
	   directory the Midnight Commander does a chdir(2) to the selected directory and reloads the information
	   on the panel; if the selection is  an  executable file  then  it is executed. Finally, if the extension
	   of the selected file name matches one of the extensions in the extensions file then the corresponding
	   command is executed.

       C-l    repaint all the information in Midnight Commander.
       C-x c  run the Chmod command on a file or on the tagged files.
       C-x o  run the Chown command on the current file or on the tagged files.
       C-x l  run the hard link command.
       C-x s  run the absolute symbolic link command.
       C-x v  run the relative symbolic link command. See the File Menu section for more information about symbolic links.
       C-x i  set the other panel display mode to information.
       C-x q  set the other panel display mode to quick view.
       C-x !  execute the External panelize command.
       C-x h  run the add directory to hotlist command.
       Alt-!  executes the Filtered view command, described in the view command.
       Alt-?  executes the Find file command.
       Alt-c  pops up the quick cd dialog.
       C-o    when the program is being run in the Linux or FreeBSD console or under an xterm, it will show
               you the output of the previous command.  When ran on the Linux console,  Midnight Commander uses
               an external program (cons.saver) to handle saving and restoring of information on the screen.

               When  the  subshell  support  is compiled in, you can type C-o at any time and you will be
               taken back to Midnight Commander's main screen, to return to your application just type

       C-o.  If you have an application suspended by using this trick, you won't be able to execute other
             programs from Midnight Commander until you terminate the suspended application.
---
 Directory Panels
       This section lists the keys which operate on the directory panels. If you want to know how to change
       the appearance of the panels take a look at the section  on  Left  and  Right Menus.

       Tab, C-i
              change  the  current  panel.  The old other panel becomes the new current panel and the old
              current panel becomes the new other panel. The selection bar moves from the old current panel to the
              new current panel.

       Insert, C-t
              to tag files you may use the Insert key (the kich1 terminfo sequence).  To untag files, just
              retag a tagged file.

       Alt-e  to change charset of panel you may use Alt-e (M-e).  Recoding is made from selected codepage
              into system codepage. To cancel the recoding, select "No translation"  in  the dialog of encodings.

       Alt-g, Alt-r, Alt-j
              used to select the top file in a panel, the middle file and the bottom one, respectively.

       Alt-t  toggle  the current display listing to show the next display listing format.  With this it is
            possible to quickly switch to brief listing, long listing, user defined listing format, and back
            to the default.

       C-\ (control-backslash)
              show the directory hotlist and change to the selected directory.

       +  (plus)
              this is used to select (tag) a group of files. Midnight Commander will prompt for a selection
              options. When Files only checkbox is on, only files  will  be  selected. If Files only is off,
              as files as directories will be selected.  When Shell Patterns checkbox is on, the regular
              expression is much like the filename globbing in the shell (* standing for zero or more
              characters and ? standing for one character). If Shell Patterns is off, then the tagging of files is
              done with normal regular expressions (see ed(1)). When Case sensitive checkbox is on, the selection
              will be case sensitive characters.  If Case sensitive is off, the case will be ignored.

       \ (backslash)
              use the "\" key to unselect a group of files. This is the opposite of the Plus key.

       up-key, C-p
              move the selection bar to the previous entry in the panel.

       down-key, C-n
              move the selection bar to the next entry in the panel.

       home, a1, Alt-<
              move the selection bar to the first entry in the panel.

       end, c1, Alt->
              move the selection bar to the last entry in the panel.

       next-page, C-v
              move the selection bar one page down.

       prev-page, Alt-v
              move the selection bar one page up.

       Alt-o  If the currently selected file is a directory, load that directory on the other panel and
               moves the selection to the next file. If the currently selected file is not a directory, load
               the parent directory on the other panel and moves the selection to the next file.

       Alt-i  make the current directory of the current panel also the current directory of the other pane.
              Put the other panel to the listing mode if needed.  If the current panel is panelized, the
              other panel doesn't become panelized.

       C-PageUp, C-PageDown
              only when supported by the terminal: change to ".." and to the currently selected directory
              respectively.

       Alt-y  moves to the previous directory in the history, equivalent to clicking the < with the mouse.

       Alt-u  moves to the next directory in the history, equivalent to clicking the > with the mouse.

       Alt-S-h, Alt-H
              displays the directory history, equivalent to depressing the 'v' with the mouse.
---
  Quick search
       The Quick search mode allows you to perform fast file search in file panel.  Press C-s or Alt-s to
       start a filename search in the directory listing.

       When  the search is active, the user input will be added to the search string instead of the command
       line. If the Show mini-status option is enabled the search string is shown on the mini-status line. When
       typing, the selection bar will move to the next file starting with the typed letters. The Backspace
       or DEL keys can be used to correct typing mistakes. If C-s is pressed again, the next match is
       searched for.

       If quick search is started with double pressing of C-s, the previous quick search pattern will be
       used for current search.

       Besides the filename characters, you can also use wildcard characters '*' and '?'.
---
  Shell Command Line
       This section lists keys which are useful to avoid excessive typing when entering shell commands.

       Alt-Enter
              copy the currently selected file name to the command line.

       C-Enter
              same a Alt-Enter.  May not work on remote systems and some terminals.

       C-S-Enter
              copy the full path name of the currently selected file to the command line.  May not work on
              remote systems and some terminals.

       Alt-Tab
              does the filename, command, variable, username and hostname completion for you.

       C-x t, C-x C-t
              copy the tagged files (or if there are no tagged files, the selected file) of the current panel
              (C-x t) or of the other panel (C-x C-t) to the command line.

       C-x p, C-x C-p
              the first key sequence copies the current path name to the command line, and the second one
              copies the unselected panel's path name to the command line.

       C-q    the quote command can be used to insert characters that are otherwise interpreted by Midnight
              Commander (like the '+' symbol)

       Alt-p, Alt-n
              use these keys to browse through the command history. Alt-p takes you to the last entry, Alt-n
              takes you to the next one.

       Alt-h  displays the history for the current input line.
---
 General Movement Keys
       The  help viewer, the file viewer and the directory tree use common code to handle moving. Therefore
       they accept exactly the same keys. Each of them also accepts some keys of its own.

       Other parts of Midnight Commander use some of the same movement keys, so this section may be of use
       for those parts too.

       Up, C-p
              moves one line backward.

       Down, C-n
              moves one line forward.

       Prev Page, Page Up, Alt-v
              moves one page up.

       Next Page, Page Down, C-v
              moves one page down.

       Home, A1
              moves to the beginning.

       End, C1
              move to the end.

       The help viewer and the file viewer accept the following keys in addition the to ones mentioned above:

       b, C-b, C-h, Backspace, Delete
              moves one page up.

       Space bar
              moves one page down.

       u, d   moves one half of a page up or down.

       g, G   moves to the beginning or to the end.
---
  Input Line Keys
       The input lines (they are used for the command line and for the query dialogs in the program) accept
       these keys:

       C-a    puts the cursor at the beginning of line.

       C-e    puts the cursor at the end of the line.

       C-b, move-left
              move the cursor one position left.

       C-f, move-right
              move the cursor one position right.

       Alt-f  moves one word forward.

       Alt-b  moves one word backward.

       C-h, Backspace
              delete the previous character.

       C-d, Delete
              delete the character in the point (over the cursor).

       C-@    sets the mark for cutting.

       C-w    copies the text between the cursor and the mark to a kill buffer and removes the text from the
              input line.

       Alt-w  copies the text between the cursor and the mark to a kill buffer.

       C-y    yanks back the contents of the kill buffer.

       C-k    kills the text from the cursor to the end of the line.

       Alt-p, Alt-n
              Use these keys to browse through the command history. Alt-p takes you to the last entry, Alt-n
              takes you to the next one.

       Alt-C-h, Alt-Backspace
              delete one word backward.

       Alt-Tab
              does the filename, command, variable, username and hostname completion for you.
---

