From: Gregor Redelonghi <gredelonghi@gmail.com>
Date: 2/14/25, 18:25
To: Gregor Redelonghi <gredelonghi@gmail.com>


Dear Mom and Dad,

Please stick with me.

I can’t think clearly right now because there is a rather substantial 
section of my prefrontal cortex missing. It’s a fairly important chunk, 
something having to do with rational thought. You see, it won’t be fully 
developed until I’m about 25. And from where I sit, 25 seems a long way 
off.

My brain is not yet fully developed

It doesn’t matter that I’m smart; even a perfect score on my math SAT 
doesn’t insulate me from the normal developmental stages that we all go 
through. Judgement and intelligence are two completely distinct things.

And, the same thing that makes my brain wonderfully flexible, creative 
and sponge-like also makes me impulsive. Not necessarily reckless or 
negligent but more impulsive than I will be later in life.

So when you look at me like I have ten heads after I’ve done something 
“stupid” or failed to do something “smart,” you’re not really helping.

You adults respond to situations with your prefrontal cortex 
(rationally) but I am more inclined to respond with my amygdala 
(emotionally). And when you ask, “What were you thinking?” the answer is 
I wasn’t, at least not in the way you are. You can blame me, or you can 
blame mother nature, but either way, it is what it is.

At this point in my life, I get that you love me, but my friends are my 
everything. Please understand that. Right now I choose my friends, but, 
don’t be fooled, I am watching you. Carefully.

Please stick with me.

Here’s what you can do for me:

1. Model adulting.

I see all the behaviors that you are modeling and I hear all of the 
words you say. I may not listen but I do hear you. I seem impervious to 
your advice, like I’m wearing a Kevlar vest but your actions and words 
are penetrating. I promise. If you keep showing me the way, I will 
follow even if I detour many, many times before we reach our destination.

2. Let me figure things out for myself.

If you allow me to experience the consequences of my own actions I will 
learn from them. Please give me a little bit of leash and let me know 
that I can figure things out for myself. The more I do, the more 
confidence and resilience I will develop.

3. Tell me about you.

I want you to tell me all the stories of the crazy things you did as a 
teen, and what you learned from them. Then give me the space to do the same.

4. Help me with perspective.

Keep reminding me of the big picture. I will roll my eyes at you and 
make all kinds of grunt-like sounds. I will let you know in no uncertain 
terms that you can’t possibly understand any of what I’m going through. 
But I’m listening. I really am. It’s hard for me to see anything beyond 
the weeds that I am currently mired in. Help me scan out and focus on 
the long view. Remind me that this moment will pass.

5. Keep me safe.

Please remind me that drugs and driving don’t mix. Keep telling me that 
you will bail me out of any dangerous situation, no anger, no lectures, 
no questions asked. But also let me know over and over and over that you 
are there to listen, when I need you.

6. Be kind.

I will learn kindness from you and if you are relentless in your 
kindness to me, someday I will imitate that behavior. Don’t ever mock 
me, please and don’t be cruel. Humor me-I think I know everything. You 
probably did as well at my age. Let it go.

7. Show interest in the things I enjoy.

Some days I will choose to share my interests with you, and it will make 
me feel good if you validate those interests, by at least acting interested.
One day when the haze of adolescence lifts, you will find a confident, 
strong, competent, kind adult where a surly teenager once stood. In the 
meantime, buckle in for the ride.

Please stick with me.

Love,
Your Teenager
https://trib.al/dQHElKD <https://trib.al/dQHElKD>