Subject: carter
From: Gregor Redelonghi <gredelonghi@gmail.com>
Date: 4/2/25, 07:08
To: Gregor Redelonghi <gredelonghi@gmail.com>


The American press has just recounted what former President Jimmy Carter 
said to Donald Trump during his recent interview about China.

"You're worried that China is getting ahead of us, and I agree with you. 
But do you know why China is getting ahead of us? I normalized 
diplomatic relations with Beijing in 1979. Since then, do you know how 
many times China has gone to war with anyone? Not once, even though 
we're constantly at war.

The United States is the most warlike nation in the history of the world 
because it wants to impose states that respond to our government and 
American values ​​throughout the West, and to control companies that own 
energy resources in other countries." China, for its part, invests its 
resources in projects such as railways, infrastructure, intercontinental 
and transoceanic bullet trains, 6G technology, robotic intelligence, 
universities, hospitals, ports, buildings, and high-speed trains instead 
of using them for military spending.

"How many kilometers of high-speed trains do we have in this country?
We wasted $300 billion in military spending to subjugate countries that 
sought to escape our hegemony.
China hasn't wasted a penny on war, and that's why it surpasses us in 
almost every area. And if we had spent $300 billion to install 
infrastructure, robots, and public health in the United States, we would 
have high-speed transoceanic bullet trains." We would have bridges that 
don't collapse, free healthcare for Americans, thousands of Americans 
who wouldn't be infected with COVID-19 more than any other country in 
the world.
We would have roads that hold up properly. Our education system would be 
as good as South Korea's or Shanghai's." - Jimmy Carter.


Gregor Redelonghi

-------------------------------
Gregor Redelonghi
Valvasorjeva ulica 5
1000 Ljubljana
-------------------------------
mobile:  040/88-55-60
email: gredelonghi@gmail.com <mailto:gredelonghi@gmail.com>